And so, this is where the idea of
a B-tree comes into play, all right?
Why do they call them B-trees?
I actually don't know why it's
called specifically a B-tree.
I didn't look it up, never really
read about it, or I don't remember.
Not really sure why.
People say they have really great
applications in database indexing.
It used to be for disk clap hairs when he
has to look up stuff, and so that's why
when you looked up stuff, you could
have the minimal amount of disk reading.
i know we don't do disk reading a lot of
Zoomers are not even sure what a disk is,
it used to happen all the time, all right?
It was a real thing.
We had a disk when we were young.
So it is, all right?
So There's a couple rules to a B-tree.
Now I've heard people specify
it in two different ways,
the minimum order or the order.
I did not spell order right upstairs.
There we go.
We're not gonna do the minimum order,
we're gonna just do the order.
I think it's probably easier to think of
it in the minimum order, but think for
the most part, most content I've ever
seen has always specified it as order.
So we're gonna stay there.
So this is called an order of the tree.
So an order of the tree is the maxed
number of children that can exist
in a tree.
So if we have an order of 5,
that means our
child max is 5,
which means our key max is 4.
Cuz remember, actually,
as you very observantly pointed out,
there's always plus 1 children for x keys.
So this is true, but there's also
a minimum requirement in a B-tree.
A minimum requirement,
the Kmin is going to
be the ceiling of your
order divided by 2 -1.
So that would be 3 -1 or 2.
Every node must have 2 keys, which means
the child minimum must be 3, all right?
Because there's always a plus one for
your amount of keys.
So these are the four rules.
Now, there is one node that gets to
break this rule, which is, okay,
someone got confused by this.
Here, hold on.
I'll just make sure we're
not confused by this.
K minimum is your order
divided by 2 ceiling.
Ceiling simply means that if it's 3.1,
the answer is 4, all right?
So it's integer division,
the other direction.
So that would be 2.5,
the ceiling of 2.5, which is 3,
then you minus the 1, which is 2.
So that means your children
min is going to be 3.
I used to chat to help me with this.
It's very good to know when people
get confused on these little things.
Because sometimes it's easy to
breeze by little details and
then you just ruin it for
everybody for the rest of the time, so
this is a very important
thing to remember.
So I'm just gonna put
a little two right here.
So there you go.
If you have an order 4 it would
slightly change everything.
The key minimum would be 1, because of
course the ceiling of 4 divided by 2 is 2.
Then you got a -1, you'd have 1.
That means our children
minimum would be a 2.
That means our children max would be a 3,
or I mean, our key max would be a 3, and
our children max would be a 4,
which means that we would have a 2, a 3 or
a 4 amount of children at any one node.
And this is a special tree called a 2,
3, 4 tree.
You've probably seen or
heard that term at some point.
That's where the name comes from.
It's the amount of potential
children that can be had.
It's not minimum, max key, max children.
It's just the amount of
children you can have.
Okay, good times.
So we'll stick with order 5 for now.
So I'll just, yeah, get rid of those.
Again, 5 max children which is gonna
be 5-1 max keys, which is gonna be 3
children which is gonna of course be
3-1 keys or how did I arrive to that?
Again, 5/ 2-1 ceiling of
that it is [SOUND] 2.
Okay, now that we got that.
A unique property about B-trees
is that they grow upwards.
Okay, it's the only tree in
computer science that grows up.
The rest of them, they all grow downwards.
But this one, we grow upwards,
which just makes it more exciting.
And one more rule, I think I said
this already, just verbally,
I just want to write it down.
The root can have one child.
It can have one key, or no sorry,
the root can have one key.
It's the only one that can break the lower
bound rule because it makes sense,
all right?
If I were to insert 10 into an empty tree,
there's just 10.
The root has to be able to
violate the minimum key rule or
else you could not construct.
All right, everyone feels good about that?
We're feeling good?
>> I have a question.
Wouldn't the ceiling division -1 basically
be the same as a floor division?
>> No.
So if we did a floor division instead,
5/2, or
really this is called integer division,
you would actually get 2, all right?
So then 2- 1 means that our minimum
key would be 1 instead of 2.
>> All right, but taking away the -1,
>> Taking away the -1?
Also no,
because then if you did an even number,
the floor on that one is 2, and
the ceiling on that one is 2.
>> Okay.
>> Because there's no
remainder at that point.
So without any remainder, so even numbers,
the floor and the seal are the same thing.
I usually call it a seal.
And in my head I hear [SOUND]
I just think it's funny.
So the seal is that way.
I don't know why I'm telling anybody that.
It's how I live my life.
Okay, 2 there we go.